# Philosophy

Nothing is obvious.  
Expect the worse.  
The exception is the rule.  
Everyone is stupid.  
Less is better.  
No steps is better than few steps.  

# Development Process for Content & Software

<aside>
♻️ We use a variation of the Kanban Agile Method:
Backlog ⇒ Todo ⇒ In Process ⇒ Test ⇒ Done ⇒ Payment or Closed.

</aside>

1. Everything starts on the SCRUM meeting.
2. We have `Backlog` of previously thought features or bug fixes.
3. During this meeting, some of the Backlog is moved to the `Todo` column after careful and public discussion and consideration with the team, each feature is **one** card, every card has written specs mutually agreed.
4. Every card has `P1` or `P2` priority consideration.
5. Developers start with `P1` by moving cards to the `In progress` section.
6. Once they are finished developers move to the `Test` section to be reviewed by the Quality team.
7. Once tested cards are moved to `done`.
8. During the next scrum cards are cleaned by closing them or moving them to `payment` section to be paid next.

# Quality Process

1. Each card on `Todo` column of the Kanban board must have a very clear definition of done.
2. Developers start developing and ask for clarification **to the Quality team** on any card during the sprint.
3. Developers deliver features by moving them to the `Test` column and adding PR link to the card.
4. Quality team manually and automatically (if available) tests the successfull delivery by checking the Preview Link and continuing Integration.
5. If approved quality approves the PR and merges with development, also moves the Kanban card from `test` to `done`

## Manually Testing

You can test software or content and the process is almost the same, what changes in most cases is the "Definition of Done":

- **When testing software: T**he QA Team should specify the "Definition of Done" the `Definition of Done` represents all the things that need to work for that feature to be considered `done`. For example: Read the [this feature](https://github.com/4GeeksAcademy/About-4Geeks-Academy/issues/1167).
- **When testing content:** All the automated tests must pass, but also the QA team needs to review the lesson and understand it form the readers perspective, make sure is well explained and that it fits the original proposal.

### Manual testing process 🤚🧪

The testing process can start because of one of two reasons: 

A) If a new bug was reported.

B) When a new Pull Request (PR) has been received.

1. When testing starts from a bug or issue reported the QA team must organize that issue card in the proper project SCRUM and make sure is clear enough to be fixed.
    1. If the bug is about content, and is easy to fix the Quality Analyst can go ahead and propose a new PR with the fix to be reviewed by other team members.
2. When testing starts from the Pull Request, the developer or content creator includes the PR link on the Kanban feature card and also ads the card into the `Test` column.
3. The QA team receives notification and navigates to the PR page and opens the automatic preview generated by Vercel.
    
    !https://s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/secure.notion-static.com/77223d5e-6837-4c77-b9d5-ae5fd3c31e1c/Screen_Shot_2021-05-04_at_3.00.11_PM.png
    
    <aside>
    📎 The preview website will be connected to the development backend server [on this link](https://breathecode-test.herokuapp.com/admin).  If you need to add or update users or any other information go ahead.
    
    </aside>
    
4. Once the preview is opened, the Quality team starts using the app or reading the content like a normal users looking to full test every single part of that lesson or feature, the QA Annalist assumes nothing and mostly focuses on the worse case scenarios, the exception to every rule.
5. If the preview link is not available, there is probably a C.I. error and automated tests and deploy has to be reviewed and fixed.
6. If the error originates because of the developer fault, the QA team notifies the developer and rejected the card by moving it to the "In Process" column.

## Automated Testing 🤖 🧪

### Content

All the content is written in Markdown, every repository contains Markdown files but also it may contain some code in Node.js or Font-End Javascript.

The content is spread in hundreads of github but only some of them required special testing procedures, the big majority can be easly tested from the breathecode platform using special scripts or software developed internally.

For example, [this repository contains most of the written lessons](https://github.com/breatheco-de/content/tree/master/src/content/lesson) at 4Geeks academy and [this script takes care of testing](https://github.com/breatheco-de/content/blob/master/src/test/test-lessons.js) them before deployment.

### Software

Cypress.js: Front-end testing.

PyUnit: Back-end or Content unit testing framework.

Jest: For testing content and also backend software testing.
